# Coral
Using image recognition to determine the health of a coral colony by comparing its current condition to past data

A large coral colony will be located in the reef. The coral colony will be constructed from ½-inch PVC pipe. The base of the coral will be located in two squares in the coral reef grid. Companies must determine the health of the coral colony by comparing the current image to an image taken one year ago. Companies must compare images to assess whether the coral has grown, is damaged/has died, is bleached/blotched, or has recovered from bleaching/blotching. Growth is defined as the coral colony having new branches not seen in the previous image. Damage or death is defined as the coral colony missing branches that were seen in the previous image. Coral bleaching or blotching is defined as colored branches from the previous photo having turned white. Recovery from bleaching or blotching is defined as white branches from the previous photo now being colored. 
Companies must compare the current coral colony to the previous image and show any changes on a video display. The base of the coral will be painted black, will not change shape or color, and should not be used in the image comparisons. 
Companies may develop image recognition software to identify and display the areas of change on the coral colony to the station judge. On a video screen, the company’s program should outline areas where the coral has changed. The following parameters must be used:
Areas of growth should be outlined with a green overlay or a marked with a green rectangle/circle around the affected area.
Areas of damage or death should be outlined with a yellow overlay or marked with a yellow rectangle/circle around the affected area.
Areas of bleaching/blotching should be outlined with a red overlay or marked with a red rectangle/circle around the affected area.
Areas that have recovered from bleaching/blotching should be outlined with a blue overlay or marked with a blue rectangle/circle around the affected area.
Every coral colony will have two to four areas of change, but only one or two categories of change. For example, a coral colony may have two areas of growth, and one area of recovery from bleaching and blotching (three areas of change, but only two categories of change). Or a coral colony may have four instances of bleaching/blotching (4 areas of change, but only one category of change). 
Once the image recognition program has identified the areas of change, companies must show their display, outlining the areas of change. Successfully outlining an area is defined as the area of change overlaid with the proper color for the type of change.
A “before” photo of the coral colony will be provided to all companies. This photo will represent the image of the coral colony from one year ago. Companies using image recognition may use this photo to construct their own “before” coral colony to compare the current coral colony.
